[ADD] WhatsApp: Documentation (#5762)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/whatsapp.rst

================
WhatsApp in Odoo
================

WhatsApp is a messaging service operated by Meta. It is commonly used as a communication tool in
many countries and within many businesses. This documentation will cover the integration of a

> WhatsApp Business Account with Odoo.

Reviewer: Can you reuse the intro on the current page (and improve it if you'd like)?
https://github.com/odoo/documentation/blob/saas-16.3/content/applications/productivity/whatsapp.rst?plain=1

IMO, it better distinguishes WhatsApp, Odoo WhatsApp and WhatsApp Business Account. The list also explains straight away what's doable with this app.

Author: I've moved the page over! Thanks for the suggestion :)

There are two different setups that WhatsApp can have in Odoo. The first is for Odoo Online users
(SaaS); this version works out-of-box and there are a set number of messages that can be sent and no
messages can be received into the database from the customer. There is no setup required to use this
version of WhatsApp with Odoo.

The second version is that of a Meta business account, where the company's Meta account is
configured in Odoo via a :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)` connection. This

> document will cover the second scenario.

Reviewer: I'd focus on this default configuration, and  add the "Odoo Online" info as a short note afterwards.

Enter the developer email address under the :guilabel:`App contact email` section, about half-way
down the *details* page.

Under the last section on the *details* page, :guilabel:`Business Account - Optional`, set it to the
Meta business account using the dropdown option. Click :guilabel:`Create app`. This action will
create the app and states that the company agrees to the Meta Platform Terms and Developer
Policies.

Finally enter the Facebook password for security purposes. Click :guilabel:`Submit` to finalize the
app creation. The browser will redirect to the :guilabel:`Meta for Developers` dashboard.

.. note::
   If the Meta business account is prohibited from advertizing, claiming an app won't be allowed. To
   resolve this issue navigate to `<https://business.facebook.com/business>`_ .

   .. seealso::
      `Meta's documentation on advertizing restrictions
      <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/975570072950669>`_.

Add WhatsApp product to the app
-------------------------------

Now that the basic structure of the app has been created a product will need to be added to the app.

> To access the Meta App Dashboard go to `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and click on the

Author: This underscore needs to be here for an external link.

app that is being configured.

Since WhatsApp will be used click :guilabel:`Set up` next to the WhatsApp app box towards the bottom
of the page.

.. seealso::
   `Meta's WhatsApp developer documentation <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/>`_.

The page will redirect to the configuration page for :guilabel:`WhatsApp Business Platform API`.
Under :guilabel:`Select a Meta Business Account` use the dropdown to make a selection of the
preferred business account on this WhatsApp configuration.

Meta will provide a WhatsApp test phone number with 5 test messages. Click :guilabel:`Continue` to
confirm this Meta Business Account selection. By doing so, the administrator agrees to Meta's terms
and conditions as linked on the Meta App Dashboard.

Start using the API
-------------------

Next the administrator will configure the WhatsApp API by adding a phone number and sending a first
test message. If the browser isn't on the :guilabel:`Quickstart` page for WhatsApp navigate to

> `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and click on the app that is being configured. In the left

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>` and click on the app that is being configured (the app name is Odoo if the instructions above were followed) . ```

> menu under :guilabel:`WhatsApp` expand the menu by clicking on the `V` icon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> A small menu will reveal itself with the following options: :guilabel:`Quickstart`, :guilabel:`API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the left hand side, click the `V` icon next to :guilabel:`WhatsApp` to expand the menu. A small menu will reveal itself with the following options: :guilabel:`Quickstart`, :guilabel:`API
```

> Setup`, and :guilabel:`Configuration`. Click on :guilabel:`Quickstart` and then click on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setup`, and :guilabel:`Configuration`. Click :guilabel:`Quickstart` and then click
```

Reviewer 2: This is where I am stuck by following along. I can't advertise or whatever the error was when I tried to link the business account I made. So from here on out, I can try and follow along but I will mostly have to review for... grammar/clarity/etc because I can't finish setting this up on my own in my test environment.

:guilabel:`Next`, and a pop-up window will appear prompting to confirm the email address. After
confirming, click :guilabel:`Done` to close the window.

Next, follow the instructions in the email sent by Facebook to confirm the creation of the business
account and to complete the setup process.

.. seealso::
   `Set up a Meta business account
   <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1710077379203657?id=180505742745347>`_

.. important::
   If the business account is linked to a personal Facebook account then the administrator must
   toggle between the personal account to the business account for the remainder of the
   configuration.

   To toggle to the business account navigate to the `Facebook Developer Console
   <https://developers.facebook.com>`_ and click on the *account name* in the upper right corner.
   Under the :guilabel:`Business Accounts` heading, click on the desired business that the WhatsApp
   configuration should take place in. This will be the account for which Odoo will send and receive
   WhatsApp messages.

   .. image:: whatsapp/toggle.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Toggle between Meta personal and business accounts.

.. important::

>   In order to create a Meta business account, the user must already have a personal Facebook account
>   that has existed for a minimum of one hour prior to setting up the Facebook Business account.
>   Trying to create the business account prior to this time will result in an error.

Reviewer 3: Needs another space for indent here
```suggestion
   In order to create a Meta business account, the user must already have a personal Facebook
   account that has existed for a minimum of one hour prior to setting up the Facebook Business
   account. Trying to create the business account prior to this time will result in an error.
```

on the next screen to verify ownership of the number. Enter the verification code and click
:guilabel:`Next` to verify the number.

Send a test message via terminal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next, send a test message via the terminal. Under the section labeled :guilabel:`Step 2 Send
messages with the API`, click :guilabel:`Send Message`. A test message will then be sent to the
phone number that was set in the previous section.

Upon successfully receiving the message to the number, move onto the next section to produce and
configure webhooks.

.. _productivity/whatsapp/webhooks:

WhatsApp configuration in Odoo
==============================

The next steps configured in this section are all within the Odoo database. A few different values
for a token, phone number, and account IDs all need to be configured in Odoo; these values are
necessary in order to create a :guilabel:`Callback URL` and :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token`, which
are then used to configure the webhooks (in order to receive messages back into the database).

In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts`.

> THen click :guilabel:`New` to configure the WhatsApp business account in Odoo.

Reviewer 3: Correction
```suggestion
Then click :guilabel:`New` to configure the WhatsApp business account in Odoo.
```

.. tip::
   Another way to configure *Webhooks* is to navigate to `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_
   and select the app that Odoo is being configured in. Then select :guilabel:`Webhooks` in the left
   hand menu.

   .. image:: whatsapp/webhooks.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Manually navigating to the Whatsapp webhooks configuration.

On the :menuselection:`Webhook configuration` page, click on :guilabel:`Edit`, where both the
:guilabel:`Callback URL` and :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token` values from the Odoo will be added.

..  note::
    Both the :guilabel:`Callback URL` and :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token` values were automatically
    populated after clicking on :guilabel:`Test Connection` in the previous step.

In a separate browser window, retrieve the necessary values in Odoo by navigating to
:menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts` and select the
account that is being configured. Locate the values under the section labeled :guilabel:`Receiving
Messages`.

Copy and paste the :guilabel:`Callback URL` from Odoo into the :guilabel:`Callback URL` field in

> Meta. Similiarly, copy and paste the :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token` into the :guilabel:`Verify

Reviewer 3: Correction
```suggestion
Meta. Similarly, copy and paste the :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token` into the :guilabel:`Verify
```

Click on :guilabel:`Add assets`, and when the pop-up window appears select :guilabel:`Apps` under
the :guilabel:`Select asset type`. Then, select the Odoo app and toggle the permissions to *On*
under the :guilabel:`Full control` option. Set this new permission setting by clicking
:guilabel:`Save Changes`, to which a confirmation window will appear, acknowledging the addition of
the asset to the system user. Finish by clicking :guilabel:`Done`.

Next, the permanent token will be generated. Click on :guilabel:`Generate new token`, and a pop-up
window will appear asking which app this token should be generated for. Select the :guilabel:`App`
that this token is for. Then determine the expiration date of either :guilabel:`60 days` or
:guilabel:`Never`.

Finally, when Meta asks which permissions should the system user allow, add all of the following
permissions:

- WhatsApp_business_messaging
- WhatsApp_business_management

When permissions are set, click :guilabel:`Generate token`. Copy the token value that populates on
the screen that follows.

With that token value, update the :guilabel:`Access Token` field in the WhatsApp business account in

> Odoo by navigating to :menuselection:` WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business
> Accounts `

Reviewer 3: Syntax errors
```suggestion
Odoo by navigating to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business
Accounts`.
```

Go live with the Meta app
=========================

Finally, to launch the app, the Meta app must be set to :guilabel:`Live` in the Meta developer
console. Navigate to `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and click on the app that is being
configured. In the top menu, toggle the :guilabel:`App Mode` field from :guilabel:`Development` to
:guilabel:`Live`.

.. important::
   If the app status is not set to *live*, then the database will only be able to contact the test
   numbers specified in the developer console.

.. warning::
   A privacy policy URL must be set in order for the app to be set to live. Go to the Meta developer
   console, `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and select the app that Odoo is being

>    configured in. Then, using the menu on the left side of the screen, go to :menuselection:` App

Reviewer 3: Syntax errors
```suggestion
   configured in. Then, using the menu on the left side of the screen, go to :menuselection:`App
```

   Settings --> Basic`. Then, enter the privacy policy hyperlink address under the
   :guilabel:`Privacy Policy URL` field of the form. Click :guilabel:`Save changes` to apply the
   privacy policy to the app.

Once the app has gone live in the Meta developer console, a confirmation email is sent to the
administrator.

.. _productivity/whatsapp/templates:

WhatsApp templates
==================

WhatsApp templates are saved messages that are used repeatedly to send messages from the database.
They allow users to send quality communications, without having to compose the same text repeatedly.

Creating different templates that are tailored to specific situations lets users choose the right
message for the right audience. This increases the quality of the message and the overall
engagement rate with the customer.

WhatsApp templates can be created on both the Odoo and Meta consoles. The following process will
overview the process for creating templates in Odoo and then afterward in Meta.

.. important::
   WhatsApp has an approval process that must be completed before the template can be used.

>    :ref:`productivity/whatsapp/approval`

Reviewer 3: Missing period 
```suggestion
   :ref:`productivity/whatsapp/approval`.
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dynamic variables reference certain fields within the Odoo database to produce unique data in the
WhatsApp message when using a template. Dynamic variables are encoded to display fields from within
the database, referencing fields from within a model.

.. example::
   Many companies like to customize their WhatsApp messages with a personalized piece of customer
   information to grab attention. This can be accomplished in Odoo by referencing a field within a
   model by setting a dynamic variable. For example, a customer's name can be referenced in the
   email from the :guilabel:`Customer` field on the :guilabel:`Sales Order` model.

.. image:: whatsapp/message.png
   :align: center
   :alt: WhatsApp message with dynamic variables highlighted.

Dynamic variables can be added in to the :guilabel:`Body` by adding :guilabel:`placeholders` in the
*text*. To add a placeholder in the *message body* enter the following text `{{1}}`. For the second
placeholder enter `{{2}}` and increase incrementally as more placeholders are added to the text.

.. example::
   *The following is the text from payment receipt template body:*

   Dear {{1}},

>    Here is your invoice *{{2}}* from *{{3}}* for a total of *{{4}}{{5}}*.
>    To review your invoice or pay online: {{6}}

Reviewer 3: Force line breaks to display like it is in the template
```suggestion
   | Here is your invoice *{{2}}* from *{{3}}* for a total of *{{4}}{{5}}*.
   | To review your invoice or pay online: {{6}}
```

Next, edit the :guilabel:`Field` of the dynamic variables. The :guilabel:`Applies to` field in the
template should be edited prior to ensure the correct model and field are referenced.

To search the available fields, type in the front-end name of the field in the search box. This will
find a result from all of the available fields for the model (:guilabel:`Applies to`) that the
template is created for. There may be multiple levels that need to be configured.

.. example::
   The following is an example of the variables set for the above placeholders in the payment
   receipt noted above:

   .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1
      :stub-columns: 1

      * - Name
        - Sample Value
        - Type
        - Field
      * - body - {{1}}
        - Azure Interior
        - Field of Model
        - `Partner`
      * - body - {{2}}
        - INV/2022/00001
        - Field of Model
        - `Number`
      * - body - {{3}}
        - My Company
        - Field of Model
        - `Company`
      * - body - {{4}}
        - $
        - Field of Model
        - `Currency > Symbol`
      * - body - {{5}}
        - 4000
        - Field of Model
        - `Amount`
      * - body - {{6}}

>         - https://..

Reviewer 3: Escape the link so it formats as plain text
```suggestion
        - \https://..
```

begin by navigating to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business
Accounts` and select the configuration that should be synced. Under the section marked
:menuselection:`Sending messages`, towards the bottom, click on :guilabel:`Sync Templates`. Meta
will update the templates that are approved so that they can be utilized with various apps in the
database.

.. image:: whatsapp/sync-template.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Syncing Meta WhatsApp templates to the Odoo database, with the 'Sync Templates'
         highlighted.

A successful message in green appears in the upper-right corner with the number of templates
updated.

.. tip::
   Templates can also be synced individually from the template itself. Navigate to the
   :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Templates` dashboard and select the template to sync. Then,
   click on the :guilabel:`Sync Template` button located in the top menu of the template's form.

Creating templates in Meta
--------------------------

First, navigate to `Meta's WhatsApp template dashboard
<https://business.facebook.com/wa/manage/home>`_, and then go to :menuselection:`Account tools -->
Message templates`.

>    .. image:: whatsapp/account-tools.png
>       :align: center
>       :alt: Account tools highlighted in business manager with the manage templates link
>             highlighted.

Reviewer 3: No need for this image to be indented
```suggestion
.. image:: whatsapp/account-tools.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Account tools highlighted in business manager with the manage templates link highlighted.
```

-------------------

Next the administrator will configure the WhatsApp API by adding a phone number and sending a first
test message. If the browser isn't on the :guilabel:`Quickstart` page for WhatsApp navigate to
`<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and click on the app that is being configured. In the left
menu under :guilabel:`WhatsApp` expand the menu by clicking on the `V` icon.

A small menu will reveal itself with the following options: :guilabel:`Quickstart`, :guilabel:`API
Setup`, and :guilabel:`Configuration`. Click on :guilabel:`Quickstart` and then click on
:guilabel:`Start using the API`.

.. image:: whatsapp/quickstart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Navigating to the Whatsapp quickstart wizard in Meta for Developer dashboard.

API Setup
---------

After clicking on :guilabel:`Start using the API` the page will redirect to the :guilabel:`API
Setup`. Now that the test number has been created a test message can be sent to confirm the WhatsApp
is in working order. To begin, navigate to the section on the page labeled :guilabel:`Send and
receive messages` and click the dropdown next to :guilabel:`To`, under :guilabel:`Step 1 Select
phone numbers`.

> Now, select the only option available: :guilabel:`Manage phone number list`. Adding a phone number

Author: Not making this change.

to send to will allow for a successful test to be sent by the terminal. Follow the steps and add up
to five numbers to send the free test messages to. After entering the appropriate country code and
phone number click on :guilabel:`Next`.

A verification code will be sent to the phone number, which needs to be input on the next screen to
verify ownership of the number. Enter the verification code and click :guilabel:`Next` to verify the
number. This verification code will originate from WhatsApp Business.

Send a test message via terminal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next a test message will be sent via the terminal. Under the section labeled :guilabel:`Step 2 Send
messages with the API`, press :guilabel:`Send Message`. Upon successfully receiving the message on
the number that was set in the previous section, move onto the next section to configure webhooks.

.. _webhooks:

Setup in Odoo
=============

The next step that must be configured is within Odoo. A few different values for a token, phone
number and account IDs need to be configured in Odoo in order to created a :guilabel:`Callback URL`

> and :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token` to configure the Webhooks and in order to receive messages back

Author: Confusing, changed the wording

into the database. First things first though, let's input these values and configure the
:guilabel:`Whatsapp Business Account` in Odoo.

Navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts`. Click
:guilabel:`New` to configure the WhatsApp business account in Odoo.

Then in another tab navigate to :menuselection:`https://developers.facebook.com --> My Apps -->
WhatsApp --> API Configuration`. Copy the following values from the Meta developer console into
Odoo:

> - :guilabel:`Phone number ID` --> :guilabel:`Phone Number ID`

Author: I've added in a table to clarify this

- :guilabel:`Temporary access token` --> :guilabel:`Access Token`
- :guilabel:`App ID` (located in the top menu) --> :guilabel:`App ID`
- :guilabel:`WhatsApp Business Account ID` --> :guilabel:`Account ID`

To retreive the :guilabel:`App Secret`, navigate to the Meta developer console,

> `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and select the app that Odoo is being configured in. Then

Author: This is a required character in Odoo docs @larm-odoo 

See this doc: 
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#hyperlinksv

- :guilabel:`Category`
- :guilabel:`Business description` (optional)

Finally click :guilabel:`Next`. Upon refresh the page will now prompt to :guilabel:`Add a phone
number for WhatsApp`. Enter the phone number to configure in WhatsApp.

.. seealso::
   `Migrate an Existing WhatsApp Number to a Business Account
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/get-started/migrate-existing-whatsapp-number-to-a-business-account>`_.

Select either :guilabel:`Text message` or :guilabel:`Phone call` as a method to verify the phone
number. Click :guilabel:`Next` to verify and add the phone number onto the account.

Finally enter the text message that was received by WhatsApp into the :guilabel:`Verification code`
field and click :guilabel:`Next`.

.. warning::
   If a payment method hasn't been added this will be necessary to proceed. `Visit Meta's
   documentation on how to add a payment method in Meta Business Manager
   <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/915454841921082?id=180505742745347>`_.

.. seealso::
   `See Meta's documentation on adding a phone number
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/get-started/add-a-phone-number>`_.

..

>   This section will be needed at a later date when it is working in Odoo.

Author: The section was grey because I commented it out, meaning it doesn't appear in the render, only the code. @larm-odoo

back to the Odoo database. WhatsApp has an approval process that must be done before the template
can be synced back to the database. Once the template is synced, edits can be made and another
request for approval can be made.

.. _whatsapp/templates:

Creating templates
------------------

Templates are prefabricated layouts that allow users to send various information in a professional
looking way to customers. These templates can contain dynamic data that will populate using
variables that are set in the template configuration.

First navigate to  `<https://business.facebook.com/wa/manage/home>`_. Then go to
:menuselection:`Account tools --> Message templates`.

.. image:: whatsapp/account-tools.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Account tools highlighted in business manager with the manage templates link highlighted.

To create a WhatsApp template click on :guilabel:`Create template` (blue button). Next select the
:guilabel:`Category`. The options listed include: :guilabel:`Marketing`, :guilabel:`Utility`, and
:guilabel:`Authentication`. In most instances the first two options will be used, unless the user
would like to send a password reset or something security related.

> Enter the :guilabel:`Name` of the template and select the :guilabel:`Language` for the template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enter a :guilabel:`Name` for the template, then select the :guilabel:`Language'.
```

.. note::

>    Multiple languages can be selected by typing and selecting another as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Multiple languages can be selected by typing the language name(s) and selecting the other languages as needed.
```

.. image:: whatsapp/template-config.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Template configuration options listed, with Marketing, Utility, Name and Language
         highlighted.

After making the appropriate selections click on :guilabel:`Continue` in the upper right hand

> corner. The page will redirect to the :guilabel:`Edit template` page. Here the :guilabel:`Header`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
corner. The page redirects to the :guilabel:`Edit template` page. Here the :guilabel:`Header`,
```

> :guilabel:`Body`, :guilabel:`Footer` and :guilabel:`Buttons` can be configured. To the right of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Body`, :guilabel:`Footer` and :guilabel:`Buttons` are configured. To the right of the
```

         highlighted.

A successful message in green should populate in the upper right hand corner with the number of
templates updated.

Using variables
---------------

Dynamic variables can be input on the WhatsApp template on the Meta business manager. This process
should be completed during the initial layout and design through the Meta business console. Dynamic
variables reference certain fields within the Odoo database to produce unique data in the WhatsApp
message through the template. Dynamic variables are encoded to display fields from within the
database referencing fields from within a model.

.. example::
   Many companies like to customize their WhatsApp messages with a personalized piece of customer
   information to grab attention. This can be accomplished in Odoo by referencing a field within a
   model by settings a dynamic variable. For example, a customer's name can be referenced in the
   email from the :guilabel:`Customer` -->  field on the :guilabel:`Sales Order` model.

First navigate to  `<https://business.facebook.com/wa/manage/home>`_. Then go to
:menuselection:`Account tools --> Message templates`. Click on one and then :guilabel:`Edit

> template` or create a new template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
template`.  If a new template is needed, create a new template by clicking :guilabel: `Create`.
```

I can't follow along here, so I am not sure if this is correct- but if the default/usual way is to edit a template maybe stick to just that scenario, or add a note hat this can be done on a new template?

Author: Should be 'new'

Insert a variable by clicking on the :guilabel:`Add variable` button in the template. Variables can
be added to the :guilabel:`Header`, :guilabel:`Body`, and :guilabel:`Footer` of the WhatsApp
template.

.. image:: whatsapp/add-variable.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adding a variable in the body of a WhatsApp template.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`whatsapp/templates`

> After the template has been submitted and approved by Meta, the template needs to be synced with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the template has been submitted and approved by Meta, sync the template with
```

> Odoo. To sync the template see this documentation: :ref:`whatsapp/sync`.

Reviewer 2: If this is referencing the sync section above, I'd have an anchor to the sync section, then have the words 'sync the template with Odoo' as the link to that section instead of having a doc link here.

Once the template(s) has been uploaded to the Odoo database navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app
--> Templates` and open the template that should be modified. Click :guilabel:`Reset to draft` to

> edit the template. The dynamic variable(s) need to be configured on the Odoo side as well to specify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
edit the template. The dynamic variable(s) are configured on the Odoo side as well to specify
```

the field that should be referenced.

To edit the dynamic variables on a template, first change the :guilabel:`Type` to :guilabel:`Field
of Model`. This allows Odoo to reference a field within a model to produce unique data in the

> end message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
message being sent.
```

Next, go to the :guilabel:`Variables` tab and edit the :guilabel:`Field` field of the dynamic
variables. The :guilabel:`Applies to` field can be edited prior to ensure the correct model and
field are referenced.

.. tip::

>    By default Meta uses the :guilabel:`Applies to` field set to the :guilabel:`Contact` model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Meta has the :guilabel:`Applies to` field set to the :guilabel:`Contact` model by default.
```

> To search the available fields, simply type in the front-end name (on user-interface) of the field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To search the available fields, type in the front-end name (on user-interface) of the field
```

> in the search. This will find a result from all of the available fields for the model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the search box. This will find a result from all of the available fields for the model
```

If it's not a box, change to whatever it is (field, etc)

(:guilabel:`Applies to`) that the template is created for. There may be multiple levels that need to
be configured.

.. warning::
   Customizing WhatsApp templates is out of the scope of Odoo Support.

> After updating the dynamic variables in the template it needs to be submitted to Meta for approval

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After updating the dynamic variables on the template, the template needs to be submitted to Meta for approval
```

> once again. Click :guilabel:`Submit for Approval` to start the approval process. An email will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
again. Click :guilabel:`Submit for Approval` to start the approval process. An email will be
```

sent to the administrator of the Meta account when the template has been approved.

> Following the approval from Meta, the templates need to be synced once again on the Odoo database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following the approval from Meta, sync the templates again in the Odoo database.
```

See this documentation: :ref:`whatsapp/sync`.

.. tip::
   Often when changing the model or :guilabel:`Applies to` field the :guilabel:`Phone Field` made
   produce an error. This should always result in `Phone` or `Mobile`.

.. seealso::
   For more information on Meta templates visit `Meta's WhatsApp comprehensive template
   documentation
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/message-templates/>`_.

Notifications
=============

Notifications in WhatsApp are handled similar to a message conversation in Odoo. A pop-up window

> will appear with the received conversation from the customer. By default notifications are set in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
appears with the received conversation from the customer. By default, notifications are set in
```

the WhatsApp business account configuration in Odoo.

Navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts`. Select
the account and scroll down to the :menuselection:`Control` section where notifications are handled.
Under :guilabel:`Notify users` type in the user(s) that should be notified for this particular
WhatsApp channel.

.. tip::

>    Set up multiple WhatsApp accounts for different departments. For example, the helpdesk team and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It is recommended to set up multiple WhatsApp accounts for different departments. For example, the helpdesk team and
```

>    sales team can chat on different channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   sales team can chat on different channels. There is no limit to the amount of accounts that can be created.
```

Check if that is true! But we should specify if it is unlimited or caps at a certain number like 10, 25, etc.

Author: Omitting this edit.

.. note::
   Once a conversation is initiated between a user and a customer, notifications to all the users

>    specified in the WhatsApp business account configuration won't take place. Only notifications to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   specified in the WhatsApp business account configuration cannot be modified for the current conversation. Only notifications to
```

I was confused by this and unsure what you meant- I believe once the conversation starts, the notifications can't be modified/ Is that true? If t, just clarify what can and can't be modified and when.

Author: the notifications won't occur to other users

>    the user in the conversation will occur. Should the user not respond within 15 days the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the user in the conversation will occur. Should the user not respond within 15 days, the
```

   customer's reply will populate once again to all the users specified in the WhatsApp
   configuration.

> Adding users to chat

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding users to a chat
```

Author: omitting per Zac's previous comments

====================

> Users can be added to the WhatsApp chat by expanding the WhatsApp pop-up window. WhatsApp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users can be added to a WhatsApp chat by expanding the WhatsApp pop-up window. WhatsApp
```

conversations are located in the *Discuss* app. Click on the person icon with the plus [ + ] icon

> next to it. A window will appear to invite users to the conversation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
next to it. A window appears to invite users to the conversation.
```

.. seealso::
   `Meta's WhatsApp access verification documentation
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/development/release/access-verification/>`_.

Template errors
---------------

Editing templates can cause tracebacks and errors unless the exact process is following above
(:ref:`whatsapp/watemplates`).

RPC_Error traceback
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If an template is manually created in Odoo and the user clicks :guilabel:`Submit for Approval` a
traceback error will populate. To circumvent this error first create the template in Meta and get
it approved (:ref:`whatsapp/templates`). Then sync the templates in Odoo as described above
(:ref:`whatsapp/sync`). Following this action, the templated can be edited and re-submitted for
approval by clicking the :guilabel:`Submit for approval` button in Odoo.

Navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Templates` and then select the template and click
:guilabel:`Submit for approval` in the top menu.

.. image:: whatsapp/traceback.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Traceback error populated in Odoo when template is manually created in Odoo.

Validation error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If a pre-configured template from demo-data is submitted for approval to Meta a validation error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a pre-configured template from demo-data is submitted for approval to Meta, a validation error
```

<https://developers.facebook.com/products/whatsapp/>`_ to communicate with their customers by text,
send documents and provide support.

With the **Odoo WhatsApp** app, one can connect a WhatsApp Business Account (WABA) to an Odoo
database, which allows for the following:

- Receive and reply to WhatsApp messages directly from a Odoo database
- Send pre-approved templates that use dynamic variables, such as:

  - Quotations from the Sales app
  - Receipts and invoices from the Point of Sale app
  - Tickets from the Events app

.. seealso::
   - `Meta Business: create message templates for the WhatsApp Business account <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/2055875911147364>`_
   - `Meta Business: connect a phone number to the WhatsApp Business account <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/456220311516626>`_
   - `Meta Business: change the WhatsApp Business display name <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/378834799515077>`_

> WhatsApp is a messaging service operated by Meta. It is commonly used as a communication tool in

Author: Noted thanks!

   documentation on how to add a payment method in Meta Business Manager
   <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/915454841921082?id=180505742745347>`_.

.. seealso::
   `See Meta's documentation on adding a phone number
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/get-started/add-a-phone-number>`_.

.. _whatsapp/token:

Permanent token
===============

After testing is complete, a permanent token should be created to replace the :guilabel:`Temporary
token`. To learn more about create a permanent system user access token `visit Meta's documentation
on System User Access Tokens
<https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/get-started#system-user-access-tokens>`_.

Navigate to `<https://business.facebook.com/>`_ and then go to :menuselection:`Business settings -->
User --> System Users`. Select an existing system user or create a new system user by clicking on
:guilabel:`Add`.

Assets must be added to the system user and then a permanent token can be generated. Click on
:guilabel:`Add assets`. When the pop-up window appears select :guilabel:`Apps` under the

> :guilabel:`Select asset type`. Then select the Odoo app. Toggle the permissions to on under

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Select asset type`. Then select the Odoo app. Toggle the permissions to *On* under
```

permissions:

- instagram_manage_comments
- instagram_basic
- business_management
- read_insights
- pages_show_list
- ads_read
- instagram_manage_insights
- catalog_management
- pages_messaging
- page_events
- publish_video
- leads_retrieval
- pages_read_engagement
- pages_manage_metadata
- pages_manage_ads
- pages_manage_cta
- whatsapp_business_messaging
- ads_management
- pages_read_user_content
- pages_manage_posts
- whatsapp_business_management
- instagram_manage_messages
- pages_manage_instant_articles
- read_page_mailboxes
- instagram_content_publish
- pages_manage_engagement

Click :guilabel:`Generate token`. Copy the token that populates on the following screen.

Update the :guilabel:`Access Token` in the WhatsApp business account in Odoo. :ref:`webhooks`.

Go live with the Meta app
-------------------------

Finally, to complete the setup, the Meta app must be set to :guilabel:`Live` in the Meta developer
console to launch the app. Navigate to `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and click on the
app that is being configured. In the top menu, toggle the :guilabel:`App Mode` field from
:guilabel:`Development` to :guilabel:`Live`.

.. note::

>    If the app status  is not set to *live*, then the database will only be able to contact the test

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   If the app status is not set to *live*, then the database will only be able to contact the test
```

   A privacy policy URL must be set in order for the app to be set to live. Go to the Meta developer
   console, `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and select the app that Odoo is being
   configured in. Then in the left hand menu, under :guilabel:`App settings`, select
   :guilabel:`Basic`. Enter the privacy policy under :guilabel:`Privacy Policy URL`. Click
   :guilabel:`Save changes` to apply the privacy policy to the app.

A email is sent to the administrator once the app has gone live in the Meta developer console.

.. _whatsapp/watemplates:

WhatsApp templates
==================

WhatsApp templates are saved messages that are used repeatedly to send messages from the database.
They allow users to send quality communications, without having to compose the same text repeatedly.

Creating different templates that are tailored to specific situations lets users choose the right
message for the right audience. This increases the quality of the message and the overall
engagement rate with the customer.

WhatsApp templates can be created on both the Odoo and Meta consoles. The following process will
overview the process for creating templates in Odoo.

.. important::

>    WhatsApp has an approval process that must be completed before the template can be used.

Reviewer 4: May be worth linking to the doc explaining the approval process (or to the section below where you explain it) in case a reader sees this warning but has additional questions.

Author: Added anchor

To access WhatsApp templates go to the :menuselection:`Whatsapp app --> Templates --> New`.

.. _whatsapp/templates:

Creating templates
------------------

> Templates are prefabricated layouts that allow users to professional looking messages to customers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Templates are prefabricated layouts that allow users to send professional looking messages to customers.
```

These templates can contain dynamic data that will populate in the end message using variables that
are set in the template configuration.

To create a WhatsApp template, click on :guilabel:`New`, and set the :guilabel:`Name`. Then select
the :guilabel:`Language` for the template.

Under the :guilabel:`Account` select the *WhatsApp business account* in Odoo that this template
should link to. Next, under the :guilabel:`Applies to` field select the *model* the server action
for this template, will *apply to*.

> 

Author: It's an access rights issue for that user.

> 

Author: Noted, I've added a link to access rights and a disclaimer

.. tip::
   These models can also be accessed in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. On a contact form
   (or other relevant form in Odoo), navigate to the model that will be referenced, and hover over
   any field name. A box of backend information will reveal itself with the specific Odoo
   :guilabel:`Model` name in the backend. Search (using front-end name) for this model in the
   :guilabel:`Applies to` drop-down menu in the WhatsApp template.

> Often when changing the model or :guilabel:`Applies to` field the :guilabel:`Phone Field` made

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Often when changing the model or :guilabel:`Applies to` field the :guilabel:`Phone Field` may
```

produce an error. The :guilabel:`Phone field `should always result in `Phone` or `Mobile`. To search

> the available fields, type in the front-end name (on user-interface) of the field in the search box.

Author: Added in image this should be in the same paragraph

This will find a result from all of the available fields for the model (:guilabel:`Applies to`) that

> the template is created for. There may be multiple levels that need to be configured.

Author: I've clarified.

Change the :guilabel:`Category` to fit either a :guilabel:`Marketing`, :guilabel:`Utility`, or

> :guilabel:`Authentication` category. Specifying an incorrect category can cause a flag from Meta In

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Authentication` category. Specifying an incorrect category can cause a flag from Meta in
```

the approval process.

> Add and :guilabel:`User` that are allowed to use this template. On the right hand column of the top

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Add any :guilabel:`Users` that are allowed to use this template. On the right hand column of the top
```

configurations a :guilabel:`Header type` can be configured along with a :guilabel:`Header message`.

The available :guilabel:`Header types` are as follows:

- Text
- Image
- Video
- Document

> - Location

Author: Variables need to be set for the location.

> Navigate to the :guilabel:`Body` tab to configure the main message of the template.

Author: There is an example below already!

> When all the necessary changes are made to the template, then click on the :guilabel:`Submit for

Author: Already noted. Not going to get into these for this doc.

approval` button in the upper left hand corner. The status of the template will change to
:guilabel:`Pending`. The status will remain in :guilabel:`Pending` until a decision has been made by
Meta. Once the user receives an email confirming that the template has been approved the templates

> will need to be synced from the Odoo database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
must be synced from the Odoo database.
```

i feel "must" is strong, and it won't work unless they do it, so it seemed fitting.

Author: It is a must do

See this documentation: :ref:`whatsapp/sync`.

.. tip::

>    Pre-configured demo-data templates can be submitted to Meta for approval. Navigate to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   There are pre-configured demo-data templates available in Odoo to use or modify. These templates can be used 
   as-is or modified to suit a specific business's needs. To use these templates, Navigate to
```

Author: Edited via a different comment.

>    :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Templates` and select the pre-configured template. Click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Templates` and select a pre-configured template. Click
```

   :guilabel:`Submit for Approval` to start the approval process. An email will be sent to the
   administrator of the Meta account when the template has been approved.

Using placeholders and variables
--------------------------------

Dynamic variables reference certain fields within the Odoo database to produce unique data in the

> WhatsApp message when using a template. Dynamic variables are encoded to display fields from within

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configured WhatsApp message templates. Dynamic variables are encoded to display fields from within
```

Author: Not going to implement it, unclear

the database referencing fields from within a model.

.. example::
   Many companies like to customize their WhatsApp messages with a personalized piece of customer
   information to grab attention. This can be accomplished in Odoo by referencing a field within a
   model by settings a dynamic variable. For example, a customer's name can be referenced in the
   email from the :guilabel:`Customer` field on the :guilabel:`Sales Order` model.

> Dynamic variables can be added in to the :guilabel:`Body` by adding :guilabel:`placeholders` in the

Reviewer 2: Maybe this can be anchored to where I commented above about a sample message?

Author: Not going to anchor a sentence only headings

> Dynamic variables can be added in to the :guilabel:`Body` by adding :guilabel:`placeholders` in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the bottom of the template  form, there are three tabs, :guilabel:`Body`, :guilabel:`Buttons`, and :guilabel:`Variables`. These three tabs combined create the template. The text is entered into the :guilabel:`Body` tab, and dynamic content that is called out in the :guilabel:`Body` tab is specified in the :guilabel:`Variables` tab. Every piece of dynamic content (variables) in the message (body) is specifically called out and specified in the :guilabel:`Variables` tab.

For example, in the body tab, if the following is typed in the body tab: "Hello {{1}}," , then "{{1}}" must be described in the variables tab, and the information that needs to be pulled to populate the field labeled {{1}} must be configured in the variables tab. For this specific case, the message should greet the customer by name, so the {{1}} shoul dbe configured to populate the {{1}} filed with the :guilabel:`User Name`.

Dynamic variables can be added in to the :guilabel:`Body` by adding :guilabel:`placeholders` in the
```

I am not 100% sure this works with the following 2 sentences, but I think it is very important to make it clear that the text is calling out items form the other tab (it took e a minute to figure this out). Plus, it would benefit form an image with the tabs shown. Or maybe with both tabs side by side, and an arrow pointing out the configured info for one of the placeholders. It's not a very complicated concept but for someone first seeing it, like me, it could be very confusing at first. This might help.

Author: Resolved, added modification of this in.

*text*. To add a placeholder in the *message body* enter the following text `{{1}}`. For the second
placeholder enter `{{2}}` and  increase incrementally as more placeholders are added to the text.

.. example::
   Hello {{1}},

   Use the following link to pay *{{2}}{{3}}* to *{{4}}* with reference *{{5}}*.
   {{6}}

   Don't share screenshots of payment here.

   Thank you

.. seealso::
   :ref:`whatsapp/templates`

These placeholders must be configured on the :guilabel:`Variables` tab of the template before
submitting for approval from Meta. To edit the dynamic variables on a template, first change the
:guilabel:`Type` to :guilabel:`Field of Model`. This allows Odoo to reference a field within a model
to produce unique data in the message being sent.

> Next, go to the :guilabel:`Variables` tab and edit the :guilabel:`Field` field of the dynamic

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Next, edit the :guilabel:`Field` field of the dynamic
```
They should already be on that tab

> variables. The :guilabel:`Applies to` field in the template can be edited prior to ensure the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
variables. The :guilabel:`Applies to` field in the template should be edited prior to ensure the
```

correct model and field are referenced.

To search the available fields, type in the front-end name (on user-interface) of the field in the

> search box. This will find a result from all of the available fields for the model

Reviewer 2: Again, I don't see where/how to search? I might be missing something but this could be specified/cleared up, because I was lost.

Author: Just need to select the box and type in it. A search box appears

(:guilabel:`Applies to`) that the template is created for. There may be multiple levels that need to
be configured.

.. example::
   The following is an example of the variables set for the above placeholders in a payment
   template:

   .. image:: whatsapp/set-variables.png
      :align: center
      :alt: An example of the variables set for the placeholders set in a payment template.

.. warning::
   Customizing WhatsApp templates is out of the scope of Odoo Support.

After updating the dynamic variables on the template, the template needs to be submitted to Meta for
approval again. Click :guilabel:`Submit for Approval` to start the approval process. An email will
be sent to the administrator of the Meta account when the template has been approved.

> Following the approval from Meta, sync the templates again in the Odoo database. See this

Reviewer 2: Yu probably don't know, but are the pre-configured templates "pre-approved" from Meta in any way? I just wondered how long this process typically is, and if it is faster if using the pre-configured ones. Not sure if support would know this or not. Not necessary info but if it's available it would be good to add. (Like does Meta have an approval pending dashboard or something we can reference? Just so we can point user's to see the status and have an idea about the process))

Author: Added link to Meta portal

the configuration that should be synced. Under the section marked :menuselection:`Sending messages`,
towards the bottom, click on :guilabel:`Sync Templates`. Meta will update the templates that are
approved so that they can be utilized with various apps in the database.

.. image:: whatsapp/sync-template.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Syncing Meta WhatsApp templates to the Odoo database, with the 'Sync Templates'
         highlighted.

A successful message in green appears in the upper right hand corner with the number of
templates updated.

Notifications
=============

Notifications in WhatsApp are handled similar to a message conversation in Odoo. A pop-up window
appears with the received conversation from the customer. By default notifications are set in the
WhatsApp business account configuration in Odoo.

Navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts`. Select
the account and scroll down to the :menuselection:`Control` section where notifications are handled.
Under :guilabel:`Notify users` type in the user(s) that should be notified for this particular
WhatsApp channel.

.. tip::

>    It is recommended to set up multiple WhatsApp accounts for different departments. For example,

Reviewer 4: I would move this tip above the configuration section.

- Create new templates with dynamic placeholders/variables
- Send pre-approved templates that use dynamic variables, such as:

  - Quotations from the Sales app
  - Receipts and invoices from the Point of Sale app
  - Tickets from the Events app

.. seealso::
   - `Meta Business: create message templates for the WhatsApp Business account <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/2055875911147364>`_
   - `Meta Business: connect a phone number to the WhatsApp Business account <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/456220311516626>`_
   - `Meta Business: change the WhatsApp Business display name <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/378834799515077>`_

WhatsApp is a messaging service operated by Meta, which is the parent company of Facebook. Whatsapp
is commonly used as a communication tool in many countries and by many businesses. This
documentation will cover the integration of a WhatsApp Business Account with Odoo. The company's
Meta account is configured in Odoo via a :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)` connection.

The Whatsapp connector supports two flows: company initiated, and customer initiated. A company can

> initiate a discussion by sending a template to one or a batch of people. Once the template is sent,

Reviewer 5: grammar
(it's not "one... people", it's one _person_)
1.
```suggestion
initiate a discussion by sending a template to one or a batch of persons. Once the template is sent,
```
2.
```suggestion
initiate a discussion by sending a template to one or more people. Once the template is sent, the
recipient can answer to trigger a discussion between the sender and the receiver (a discuss chat
```

> the recipient can answer to trigger a discussion between the sender and the receiver (a discuss chat
> window will popup if the customer answers within 15 days).

Reviewer 5: wording
- cause>effect
- popup is a noun; pop up is the action you're looking for 😉 

*Discuss* is capitalized and italicized here since it's an Odoo product, no?

```suggestion
recipient can answer in order to trigger a discussion between the sender and the receiver (a
*Discuss* chat window will pop up if the customer answers within 15 days).
```
